DoseCalcs tool is built for Ubuntu and CentOS. It is one tool which comprises a package named gui based on Qt-C++ and a package named core based on Geant4 toolkit. This combination enables users to leverage the strength of the core package for internal dosimetry using command file interface while enjoying the convenience and ease of use provided by the graphical user interface of gui package.

Core package is based on Geant4 toolkit, which is a set of physics libraries coded in C++ that serve to solve physics problems concerning the transport of radiation in matter using the Monte Carlo method. The core implements these functionalities to simulate the internal dosimetry scenarious. It allows the study of interaction of radiation emitted from a region source with the matter filling all other body regions in order to score the related internal dosimetry quantities. The core package can be installed by following the prerequisites installation (DoseCalcs-Core Installations), then you can execute it separately using commands file by following the DoseCalcs-Core Simulations and DoseCalcs-Core Commands documentation.

The gui package is a graphical user interface for core package. It is designed to simplify the installation, interaction, and execution of the core graphically through a visual interface. The gui package offers intuitive controls, graphical representations, and interactive elements that enhance the user experience. Users can easily navigate through various gui tabs to: install core prerequisites, build core package; save configuration; add simulation inputs; monitor the progress of simulation; visualize results, and access additional functionalities through the graphical interface. It simplifies the usage of core for users who are more comfortable with graphical interfaces or prefer a visual representation of their work.
